<h2 id="wp">Publications: </h2>

- *<strong><strong>Learning in a Complex World: Insights from an OLG lab Experiment</strong></strong>, (with Cars Hommes, Stefanie Huber,  and Isabelle Salle) Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization (2024), Volume 220, pp. 813-837* [[Link]](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167268124000970))

<p align="justify">This paper investigates equilibria selection and price dynamics in a complex OLG economy with multiple perfect-foresight equilibria using learning-to-forecast and learning-to-optimize experiments. In the theoretical model, these dynamics depend on one utility function parameter. We conduct five treatments to test price convergence and coordination with different values of this parameter corresponding to (i) a stable 2-cycle, (ii) a stable 3-cycle, (iii) a stable 4-cycle, and (iv) chaos. This paper highlights three key findings: First, price converges to the simplest equilibria (steady state and 2-cycle) in all groups of the learning-to-forecast experiment. Second, convergence to the 2-cycle occurs for the intermediate parameter range, while theoretical scenarios of 2-cycle and highly nonlinear dynamics (chaos) lead to coordination on the steady state in the lab. Finally, convergence in the learning-to-optimize experiment is harder to achieve, and the 2-cycle is not observed although it Pareto dominates the steady state in terms of payoff.</p>
<h2 id="wp">Working papers: </h2>

- *<strong><strong> The Passthrough from Inflation Perceptions to Inflation Expectations</strong></strong>, (with Stefanie Huber and Tobias Schmidt; 2023).[<i> submitted </i>]* [[Deutsche Bundesbank Discussion Paper]](https://www.bundesbank.de/resource/blob/902668/365682610f6c37a512c5905f66f8f285/mL/2023-06-30-dkp-17-data.pdf) <strong><strong> JOB MARKET PAPER </strong></strong>

<p align="justify">This paper documents a strong causal relationship between households' perceptions of inflation over the past 12 months and their short- and long-term expectations about future inflation. Using panel data from a representative online survey for Germany, we show that this relationship is strong during high-inflation periods but even stronger during low-inflation periods. The pass-through strength from perceptions to expectations varies across socioeconomic groups. Our results indicate that differences in individual uncertainty about future inflation and information acquisition are moderating this heterogeneity. Our results have important policy implications. Central banks can influence inflation expectations directly and indirectly by influencing perceptions.</p>

- *<strong><strong>The effect of information on consumer inflation expectations</strong></strong>, (with Gabriele Galati, Richhild Moessner and Maarten van Rooij; 2024).* [[De Nederlandse Bank Working Paper]](https://www.dnb.nl/publicaties/publicaties-onderzoek/working-paper-2024/810-the-effect-of-information-on-consumer-inflation-expectations/)

<p align="justify">This paper examines how information provision affects consumers’ inflation expectations. Using data from a representative Dutch household survey, we document that providing information about current and past inflation rates, as well as the ECB inflation target, brings inflation expectations closer to the target and reduces the upward bias typically found in the literature. The beneficial effect of information holds across various types of inflation expectations and time horizons. We also find that consumers' reactions to information are heterogeneous, with women, individuals with low levels of education and income, and renters showing stronger reactions to information provision. Finally, we observe that the effect of information provision on inflation expectations in times of normal economic activity is similar to its effects during periods of large economic shocks such the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ukraine war and the start in 2022 of the monetary tightening cycle following a strong increase in inflation.</p>


<h2 id="wip">Work in progress: </h2>

- *<strong><strong>Learning about inflation from the housing market. Survey evidence</strong></strong>.*
  
<p align="justify">Using the data from a representative consumer survey, this paper documents a robust empirical fact that homeowners expect higher inflation on all time horizons than renters. I then explore the potential explanations for this finding. I identify the perceived current inflation as the main reason for the observed gap. Homeowners and renters differ in their estimates of current inflation which results in the differences in expectations. In the formation of inflation perceptions, both groups of consumers rely on the information they get from the housing market. Despite being biased signals of the overall CPI, house prices and rents play an important role in the estimates of the current inflation. When consumers are provided with the data on current inflation, the differences in inflation expectations between groups disappear. The findings of the paper suggest that informing consumers about the current level of inflation might be an effective monetary policy tool. </p>

- *<strong><strong>The Effects of Macro and Micro Shocks on the Firms' Price-Setting. The Expectations Channel</strong></strong>.*

<p align="justify">I study how firms' price-setting decisions react to macro and micro shocks using a representative survey. I split a shock that an economy faces into two orthogonal components, a micro shock that affects only firms' own performance and a macro shock that affects the general economic conditions and other firms. The paper analyzes the effect of both shock components using one adverse event that firms in Germany faced over the period from 2020 until 2023, the war in Ukraine. I identify the firms that suffered only a macro shock after this event and the enterprises that faced both macro and micro shocks. The paper's first important takeaway is that firms' expectations react differently depending on whether they face a micro or a macro shock. Aggregate expectations change more after a purely macro shock, while individual expectations adjust more after a micro shock. The macro and micro shocks also feed differently into the price-setting decisions. A purely macro war shock is associated with a larger price increase, while the firms that face a combined shock adjust prices less. These findings are in line with costly information acquisition and rational inattention literature, and they hint that providing information about current general economic conditions to firms might be beneficial. </p>
